# Real_Time_and_Embedded_Systems
# Multiple traffic signal

This is an Embedded C program to control the traffic flow through traffic lights on a cross road. I have used Keli u
Vision5 IDE to program and buuld the C source code and Proteus for running the simulation. On the program 4 traffic lights
and AT89C51 microcontroller were used. 

# How to run the program? 
After building the C source code, a HEX file is generated by the IDE. The generated HEX file can be found in "Objects" 
folder in the parent folder where the project islocated. The generated HEX file must be attached to the AT89C51 
microcontroller found in the implementaion. To attach the HEX file, double click on the microcontoller and find and option that says "Program File", on the right side you will see
a "browse" folder. Click on that, find the hex file in the "Objects" folder and select it. After that click on ok to save
the progress. The "Edit Component" dialog box is closed and the HEX file will be attached successfully. 
This HEX file is very improtant for the simulation to function as it serve as an interface for connecting the source code 
with simulation. After linking the HEX file you can run the simlation to see the four traffic light signals changing lights
simultaneaously. The green lights up for the vehicles travelling on the X-axis of the cross road and the traffic light
for the vehicles found on the Y-axis of the cross road turns red. The yellow light serves as an intermediary for changing 
light from green to red and vice versa. After yellow lights up on all the traffic lights, both the traffic lights on the 
X-axis turns red and both the traffic lights found on the Y-axis turn to green. The process repeats it self accordingly.
# Where to apply the program?
This traffic lights simulation can be practically used for controlling traffic flow on corssroads.


